---
title: "Tools for Crafting a OS"
author: A1phaZer0
layout: post
category: Kernel
---

> **GCC**

**Preprocessor Options**

*-MD*: Generate dependency file.

*-MD -E -o*: Specify the **dependency output** file.

*-MD -o*: (No -E) Specify a target **object** file.

**Optimize Options**

*-fno-omit-frame-pointer*: Always keep the frame pointer in a register.

*-fno-strict-aliasing*: Don't apply strict aliasing rules to the language being compiled.

*-fno-stack-protector*: Don't use stack protector.

*-O0*: Don't optimize.

<!--more-->

**C Dialect Options**

*-fno-builtin*: Do not use gcc built-in function to replace function calls in user code, unless that function is explictly starting with `__builtin_` as prefix.

**Debugging Options**

*-fvar-tracking*: Run variable tracking pass.

*-fvar-tracking-assignments*: Improv debug information while optimizing.

**Directory Options**

*-nostdinc*: Don't search the standard system directories for header files. Only the directories explicitly specified with `-I`, `-iquote`, etc.


**Code Generation Options**

*-fno-pic*: Don't generate position indepent code.

**Link Options**

*-static*: Don't link with shared libraries (compile them inside).

*-c*: Compile object file but no linking.

**Overall Options**

*-x language*: Explicitly specify the language for the following input files.

**X86 Options**

*-m32*: Generate 32-bit code(object file).


When gcc preprocess asm code via gcc, `__ASSEMBLER__` is defined with value 1. This cloud be used when a header is included into assembly code but some part of this header is not valid to assembly.
```c
#ifndef __ASSEMBLER__

typedef unsigned int pte_t;

#endif
```

> **GAS**

*-m32*: Generate 32-bit code.

> **ld**

*-m elf_i386*: Use i386 emulation.

*-N*: Set the text and data sections to be readable and writable. Also, do not page-align the data segment, and disable linking against shared libraries.

*-e*: Specify an entry point.

*-Tbss=org
-Tdata=org
-Ttext=org*: Locate a section in the output file at the absolute address given by org.

*-T scriptfile*: Use `scriptfile` as the linker script.

*-o output*: Use `output` as the name for the program produced by ld.

*-b input-format*: ld may be configured to support more than one kind of object file. If your ld is configured this way, you can use the ‘-b’ option to specify the binary format for input object files that **follow this option** on the command line.

> **Linker Script**

*OUTPUT_FORMAT(bfdname)*: Specify output file format (e.g. elf32-i386). 

*OUTPUT_FORMAT(default, big, little)*: Specify output file format based on command line options -EB -EL (big endian little endian).

*OUTPUT_ARCH(bfdarch)*: Specify a particular output machine architecture.

*ENTRY(entry)*: Specify entry point.

.: Location counter, for `VMA`.

*SECTIONS { }*: Define memory layout for output file.

Each section in output file can be defined with syntax:
```bash
section [address] [(type)] : [AT(lma)]
  {
    output-section-command
    output-section-command
    ...
  } [>region] [:phdr :phdr ...] [=fillexp]
```
Special output section **/DISCARD/** used to discard target input sections.

\*: The \* is a wildcard which matches any file name. The expression `*(.text)` means all `.text` input sections in all input files.

**(.text)*: Combine all `.text` sections from all intput file.

\*(.text .rdata)  
\*(.text) \*(.rdata): Combine different types of sections together. In the first expression, `.text` and `.rdata` sections will be intermingled. In the second expression, all `.text` sections will combined first then all `.rdata` sections.

*PROVIDE(symbol = expression)*: Generate a symbol which is not defined by any input file.

*BYTE, SHORT, LONG, QUAD*: Store 1, 2, 4, 8 bytes of data respectively.

*ALIGN(exp)*: `Return` the location counter (.) aligned to the next exp boundary.

> **objcopy**

```bash
$objcopy infile outfile
```

*-O bfdname
--output-target=bfdname*: Write the output file using the object format bfdname.

*-S
--strip-all*: Do not copy relocation and symbol information from source.

*-j sectionname*: Specify a section(e.g. .text). 

> **dd**

```bash
$dd if=input of=output seek=1 conv=notrunc
```
Default output block size is `512 bytes`, `seek=1` means skip 1 * 512 bytes of `output` file then copy.

`conv=notrunc`: No truncation to output file even end of input is already reached.
